---
layout: post
title: "Inkhavening"
date: 2026-04-08
canonical_url: https://henryaj.substack.com/p/inkhavening
source: substack
---

<p>It&#8217;s 4am and I&#8217;m lying awake. Can&#8217;t sleep. Walk out into the cold, perfumed air. Sliders crunching on astroturf. In the kitchen I down a Soylent Mint Chocolate Meal Replacement Drink and a Pamplemousse La Croix. It tastes like TV static. One person is still up, surrounded by Diet Coke cans, working on tomorrow&#8217;s post.</p><div><hr></div><p>I check online. Three people still haven&#8217;t posted. It&#8217;s 11:56pm; I posted at 2pm. That either means I&#8217;m very disciplined or that I&#8217;m not really trying, that I should be plumbing the depths of my soul instead of writing about land value tax. I hope tonight&#8217;s the night someone gets kicked out.</p><div><hr></div><p>Ben Pace announces that our kind sponsors wordpress dot com have provided swag &#8211; Moleskine notebooks and baseball caps, one per person. I take two of each and feel surprisingly little shame. Petty crimes in an age of abundance.</p><div><hr></div><p>The heating here doesn&#8217;t use convection, it&#8217;s radiative. Click on the thermostat and a panel above your head beams infrared at you. So very clever, like so many other things here.</p><div><hr></div><p>I was proud of my first post, an unusually squishy piece which appeared at my fingertips at 6 in the morning and was done by 7. I learn this is called &#8220;personal non-fiction&#8221;. It gets a lot of praise, and I&#8217;m a sucker for flattery, but it alienates two of my friends.</p><div><hr></div><p>Everyone here is one of: smarter, more insightful, funnier, higher status, a better writer than me. Sometimes all of the above. We swim in the same water, I am familiar with the Sequences (haven&#8217;t read them though, that would be cringe) &#8211; but I am still an interloper from a poor European island which has seen zero wage growth in a decade. Meanwhile their Microsoft RSUs are worth a million dollars.</p><div><hr></div><p>It feels very validating to have every need taken care of: food, snacks, a fridge full of fancy beverages, towel service, a cabinet full of toiletries. It makes me feel important. I try not to think about going back to Peckham.</p><div><hr></div><p>People ask me about my <em>timelines. </em>I talk a good game but it feels like kayfabe &#8211; I&#8217;m not sure I really believe AI is going to kill us all. Or maybe I do believe it, but I just don&#8217;t really care?</p><div><hr></div><p>Something about <a href="https://henryaj.substack.com/p/a-paean-to-bigness">America&#8217;s bigness</a> makes this country feel like the centre of the world. A kind of wastefulness that signals abundance. Wash your clothes in the massive oversized machine and then toss them in the gas-powered dryer. Back home we hang up our smalls one by one and the windows fog up.</p><div><hr></div><p>I ask people what they were doing before this. Oh, I was getting my PhD in Legal History from Cambridge while being a champion boxer. Oh, not much, just being paid half a million dollars a year at a FAANG which I quit to pursue being a dating coach. Oh I was blogging a bit (I check and their Substack says &#8220;over 10,000 subscribers&#8221;). Why, what were you doing?</p><div><hr></div><p>I take a break from campus life and swipe a bit on the <em>apps</em>. I&#8217;m happy and busy but maybe I could get a cute date, have some physical touch. Wrong. I remember the Bay Area&#8217;s brutal demographics; they do not work in my favour. I turn over and go back to sleep.</p>
