---
layout: post
title: "Claude Coding apps on the cheap"
date: 2026-04-30 03:00:15 +0000
canonical_url: https://henryaj.substack.com/p/claude-coding-apps-on-the-cheap
source: substack
---

<p>Having a Claude Max subscription means you basically have the capacity to make limitless apps and other fun things.</p><p>It also means you&#8217;re out $100 a month, which doesn&#8217;t leave much left over for hosting. Here&#8217;s how you can run your projects on the cheap.</p><h2>Serious projects &#8211; use a PaaS</h2><p><em>Anything that needs to work, gets significant traffic, which has paying customers</em></p><p>For serious projects (especially ones you&#8217;re charging money for and get significant traffic) you should probably just use a proper platform-as-a-service like Heroku. It&#8217;s expensive for the amount of compute you get, but they handle deployments, monitoring, logging, add-ons and so on, leaving you to sleep at night.</p><h2>Small projects</h2><p><em>Projects which are getting some amount of traffic but can tolerate some downtime</em></p><h3>Fronend-only</h3><p>Anything that doesn&#8217;t need a backend can just be deployed to GitHub Pages or Vercel for free. Vercel gives you free analytics; on GitHub Pages you can add a Google Analytics (or similar) tracking code. You can run builds locally or just do them using GitHub Actions.</p><p>You would also be surprised how many things can be run with just a frontend. <a href="http://retreatsfyi.blmc.dev">retreatsfyi</a> was initially a Rails app with a few features that required backend (like setting up alerts). But for a project that&#8217;s so small those features weren&#8217;t critical, so now I have Claude scrape retreat centre websites, process the data locally into a static site, and then just deploy that, doing filtering on the frontend.</p><h3>Projects with a backend</h3><p>Anything that is backendful will need an actual server to run it. But if you&#8217;re a solo operator, you don&#8217;t actually <em>need</em> a real CI and deployment pipeline, because Claude can do it all for you locally.</p><p>Sign up for Hetzner and buy a cheap box. You can get a surprisingly capable one for about &#8364;6 a month. Generate an SSH key locally and launch the machine with the corresponding public key. From there, Claude can interact with it from your local machine.</p><p>Claude Code can write you a docker-compose file, SSH onto the box, set it up, pull your repo (or scp it) and run it. The benefit of using a VPS rather than a PaaS like Heroku is you get permanent storage, so you can store files locally and use a database like SQLite.</p><p>Set up a &#8216;/deploy&#8217; skill in your project which runs your tests, and if they pass, SSHes onto the server, does a git pull, and runs docker-compose up.</p><h4>Multiple projects on the same box</h4><p>Use Caddy as a reverse-proxy. Claude will set up a Caddyfile for you, with multiple stanzas, one for each project. Just make sure it knows that other projects are running on there.</p><h4>Backups</h4><p>Use restic and AWS S3 to back up the box; Claude will write the cron job.</p><h4>DNS</h4><p>AWS Route53 can be interacted with using the aws CLI, so you can ask Claude to manage this for you once you&#8217;ve added your domain.</p><p>If you don&#8217;t want to have to buy a domain for each of your projects, just buy a general root domain and use subdomains for each of your projects.</p><p>Cloudflare has a free tier if you want to use them for DNS and get DDoS protection out-of-the-box, but that&#8217;s probably overkill.</p><h4>Sending email</h4><p>Use <a href="http://postmarkapp.com">Postmark</a>. You get 100 free a month.</p><p><em>Happy coding! </em>&#129489;&#8205;&#128187;</p>
